AngularJS Services

In AngularJS, services are singletons objects that are instantiated only once per app. 
Services are used to organize and share code across your app.

It means, services can play major role to perform only specific tasks. 
Using $scope you can create model data and bind to the views,it does not responsible to manipulate data. 
Service object contains few useful functions that you can call from Controllers, Directive and Filters etc.

AngularJS comes with several built-in services such as 
$http, $route, $window, $location etc.
AngularJS also allows you to create your own service by registering the service. 
Once a service is registered, the AngularJS compiler can reference it and load it as a dependency for runtime use.

AngularJS provide two ways to create a service: 

Syntax1: Service

    var module = angular.module('myapp', []);  
    module.service('customerService', function(){  
        this.customers = ['Jimi', 'Tom', 'Jake'];  
    });  

Syntax2: Factory

    var module = angular.module('myapp', []);  
    module.factory('customerService', function(){  
        var cust = {};  
        cust.customers = ['Jimi', 'Tom', 'Jake'];  
        return cust;  
    });  
    
AngularJS Built in Services

Angular services are injectable object injected using dependency injection (DI) mechanism of AngularJS. The AngularJS services can be used to organize and share code across your app.

Angular services are:

    Lazily instantiated - Angular only instantiates a service when an application component depends on it.
    Singletons - Each component dependent on a service gets a reference to the single instance generated by the service factory.

Reference
http://www.techstrikers.com/AngularJS/angularjs-built-in-services.php